# mohonkClimateTeleconnections
A public repository for the code needed to recreate the analysis in [Oleksy &amp; Richardson 2021](https://agupubs-onlinelibrary-wiley-com.libproxy.uwyo.edu/share/6CICWHJVCWHMIUIRAH8G?target=10.1029/2020GL090959) published in Geophysical Research Letters.

 Here, we used a 35-year data set of weekly, year-round temperature profiles for Mohonk Lake, NY, to evalu- ate local, regional, and global drivers of trends in lake thermal structure. Our objectives were twofold. First, Here, we used a 35-year data set of weekly, year-round temperature profiles for Mohonk Lake, NY, to evalu- ate local, regional, and global drivers of trends in lake thermal structure. Our objectives were twofold. First, we explored hypothesized climatic drivers at different seasonal scales and identified the mechanisms re-ate local, regional, and global drivers of trends in lake thermal structure. Our objectives were twofold. First, we explored hypothesized climatic drivers at different seasonal scales and identified the mechanisms re- sponsible for temperature changes in surface and deep waters in a small, dimictic lake (Figure S1). Second, we explored hypothesized climatic drivers at different seasonal scales and identified the mechanisms re- sponsible for temperature changes in surface and deep waters in a small, dimictic lake (Figure S1). Second, we aimed to explain drivers of interannual variability in lake thermal structure and stratification phenology. sponsible for temperature changes in surface and deep waters in a small, dimictic lake (Figure S1). Second, we aimed to explain drivers of interannual variability in lake thermal structure and stratification phenology. We developed a metric to capture all details about the stratified period—including timing of onset of strat-we aimed to explain drivers of interannual variability in lake thermal structure and stratification phenology. We developed a metric to capture all details about the stratified period—including timing of onset of strat- ification, stratification strength, length of stratification—called mixing action, defined as the total energy We developed a metric to capture all details about the stratified period—including timing of onset of strat- ification, stratification strength, length of stratification—called mixing action, defined as the total energy required to mix a lake over an entire stratified season. We compared mixing action directly to global metrics ification, stratification strength, length of stratification—called mixing action, defined as the total energy required to mix a lake over an entire stratified season. We compared mixing action directly to global metrics of climate change and teleconnections because both simultaneously affect the same local weather variables. required to mix a lake over an entire stratified season. We compared mixing action directly to global metrics of climate change and teleconnections because both simultaneously affect the same local weather variables. We expected mixing action to increase with global atmospheric warming, but that some of the variability of climate change and teleconnections because both simultaneously affect the same local weather variables. We expected mixing action to increase with global atmospheric warming, but that some of the variability from that relationship would relate to teleconnections. We expected mixing action to increase with global atmospheric warming, but that some of the variability from that relationship would relate to teleconnections.
